---
layout: archive
title: "Projects"
permalink: /projects/
author_profile: true
---

Historical glacier reconstruction for enhanced understanding of past changes and impacts on modeled projections
======
*2022-2025*\
Long-term historical records of glacier mass change are key to advancing our understanding of how glaciers are responding to climate change and improving predictions of their future. We use historical aerial photographs and new bed topography measurements to obtain an 85-year record of glacier change on Kennicott and Root Glaciers in Alaska. We observe a clear shift from a likely near-equilibrium state before 1957, to ongoing and accelerating mass loss throughout the late 20th and into the 21st century. Stark differences in the timing and pattern of thinning on the terminus of Kennicott and Root Glaciers emphasize the impact of debris cover on surface mass balance and ice fluxes. Under heavy debris on Kennicott Glacier, the timing of thinning aligns with reduced surface velocities, while thinning on Root Glacier corresponds to changes in the surface mass balance. Projections from a glacier evolution model that leverage these data predict accelerating rates of mass loss through at least 2050 before leveling out or trending back toward equilibrium by the end of the century. While the detailed pattern of mass loss varies between the two glaciers, these improved projections ultimately suggest that 38 to 60% of Kennicott and Root Glaciers’ total mass in 2000 will be lost by 2100, depending on the emissions scenario. Not only does such analysis enhance our understanding of glaciers’ response to climate change, but also better prepares society for the adverse impacts accompanying glacier mass loss. Thus, by leveraging historical data, we can better plan for future changes including developing adaptation and mitigation strategies for the corresponding impacts on sea-level rise, ecosystems, water resources, and the communities that rely on these glaciers.


GNSS reflectometry from low-cost sensors for continuous in-situ contemporaneous glacier mass balance and flux divergence
======
*2021-2024*\
Recent advances in remote sensing have produced global glacier surface elevation change data. Parsing these elevation change signals into contributions from the climate (i.e. climatic mass balance) and glacier dynamics (i.e. flux divergence) is critical to enhancing our process-based understanding of glacier change. We evaluated three approaches for direct, continuous measurements of the climatic mass balance, flux divergence, and elevation change at a site on Gulkana Glacier in Alaska using low-cost global navigation satellite system (GNSS) sensors, GNSS interferometric reflectometry (GNSS-IR), banded ablation stakes with time-lapse cameras and combinations thereof. We showed that contemporaneous climatic mass balance, flux divergence, and elevation change can be obtained from a single GNSS system fixed atop an ablation stake. Thus, the data provide critical high-temporal resolution calibration and validation data for modeled and remote sensing-derived products alike, especially for efforts that seek to separate flux divergence signals from total elevation change. As one of the first studies leveraging GNSS-IR on a mountain glacier, we see potential in GNSS-IR for future in situ investigations of mountain glaciers, as it reduces the barrier for otherwise difficult simultaneous climatic mass balance and flux divergence measurements. While our study deployed systems during the ablation season, we see the potential for year-round observations on mountain glaciers in the future.\
[publication](https://doi.org/10.1017/jog.2024.54)
